- [Instructor] OAuth is an authorization standard
that supports token based security approaches
like those used for securing microservices.
OAuth can be a little complicated
but it's really important to understand.
So we'll spend some time mastering the fundamentals
before covering the details.
Let's start by diving into some OAuth two terminology
that defines the four roles or actors
that participate in token based access strategies.
First is the resource owner.
Think of this as the end-user
who owns the information found in a microservice
and can access it.
Next is the resource server
which is the server hosting the API
in front of the microservices.
The resource server
makes a resource owner's information accessible
if an access token is provided.
The authorization server is responsible
for issuing that access token to a client
and verifying the integrity of access tokens pass
to the resource server.
Finally, the client is an application
that accesses resources on behalf of a resource owner.
It is granted a token by the authorization server.
These roles are part of the OAuth two standard
which describes the mechanism for clients to obtain
and use an access token to achieve secure access
to protected resources like our microservices.
How you access a hotel room is a great high level comparison
to the mechanics of OAuth.
As a client of the hotel,
you need to access a room that is owned by the hotel owner,
who would be the resource owner.
The hotel staff at the front desk serves
as the authorization server.
They ensure the hotel owner has authorized your stay
usually by confirming your payment.
And if so, they issue a key card which is your token.
To access the room, which is the protected resource,
you must swipe the key card or token against the lock,
which acts as the resource server
because it protects the room from unauthorized access.
If the key card is valid,
your token grants you access to only your specific room
for the length of your reservation.
And afterwards, the card is deactivated.
The hotel analogy is helpful
but it can not reflect every exact detail of an OAuth flow.
The OAuth two standard specifies the details of each step
in one of four flows a client can follow
to be issued an access token containing specific scopes.
Each series of steps known as a grant type
defines an ordered sequence of HTTPS calls that occur
between the client, resource owner and authorization server.
When requesting this token,
the client specifies a parameter
that indicates the scope of the access request.
A scope is a protected action defined on an API
that an end-user can authorize a client
to perform on their behalf.
You can think of OAuth as a playbook
and each grant type as a play
that is best suited for certain scenarios.
One strength of the OAuth playbook is its flexibility,
which it achieves through careful omission
of certain implementation details.
For example, at points in the standard,
it indicates a resource owner must be identified
but it clearly states the authentication mechanism
is beyond the scope of the specification.
It also avoids dictating the format of an access token,
how a client registration occurs
or how tokens should be verified.
Beyond the scope of the specification
is littered throughout the standard.
But that's where the flexibility comes in.
These careful omissions in the OAuth standard
allow it to act as a fill in the blank protocol
where implementers can use their preferred techniques
for areas the specification leaves open,
such as authentication, client registration
and token format.
To help fill in the blanks,
the community surrounding OAuth has produced specifications
like OpenID Connect, JWT, JWS and many others
that extend or compliment the core OAuth standard.
When securing microservices using a token,
the OAuth two family of specifications
and a few others play a vital role.
The standards provide guidance
on how to securely perform certain events
throughout a token's life cycle.
As we discuss access control strategies for microservices,
we'll dive deeper into these standards
and the role they play when integrating
into our security platforms.